There are a plethora of scholastic opportunities in learning foreign languages for kids, but those usually stop at French or Spanish. There are many academic journals that prove learning a new language is easier the earlier you start, so why wouldn't this include new programming languages. In a rapidly growing digital age, it is to the children’s greatest advantage to learn coding languages early on.


CodeOn is a revolutionary website designed to both spark young adult’s interest in bioinformatics and teach them the basics of bioinformatics coding. Of all the programming languages, Python is the perfect language to first introduce to students for two main reasons. First, it is widely used in the field of Bioinformatics. Second, many sources rank Python the easiest programming language to start with. 


The design of CodeOn is clean and simple in order to create an easy atmosphere for kids to stay focused in comparison to a busy site. The lessons are organized numerically and displayed in a linear fashion. This seems to be the easiest structure for kids to follow and learn independently from. Students are taken through a crash course of sorts on basic genetics--the genome, DNA, RNA, proteins a.k.a. the central dogma of biology. They are then introduced to a series of coding tutorials on how to transcribe, translate and get the reverse complement. A python text editor is included for each coding lesson to allow the students to practice writing their own lines of code, and implement what they’ve previously been learning. 
